content/_index.md, before:

---
outputs:
    - html
    - gemtext
    - atom
    - RSS
title: Seirdy’s Home
sitemap:
    - ChangeFreq: weekly
    - Priority: 0.9
stype: "https://schema.org/WebSite"
---
## About me

<meta itemprop="url" content="https://seirdy.one" />
<div itemprop="author" itemscope="" itemtype="https://schema.org/Person" itemid="https://seirdy.one/#seirdy" class="p-author author h-card vcard" id="seirdy">

I'm <a itemprop="url" href="https://seirdy.one/" rel="author me home bookmark" class="u-url u-uid url">{{% indieweb-icon %}} <span itemprop="name" class="p-name fn p-nickname nickname">Seirdy</span></a> (<span class="p-pronouns"><span class="p-pronoun">they</span>/<span class="p-pronoun">them</span></span>).

The Director's Cut of my bio is at my [About page](./about/ "{itemprop='subjectOf'}").

<div class="p-note" itemprop="description">

I care deeply about <span class="p-category category">inclusive design</span> and <span class="p-category category">accessibility</span>, and hope my site's design reflects that. I'm a <abbr class="p-category category" title="Free, Libre, and Open-Source">FLOSS</abbr> supporter, though my perspective on software freedom differs from organizations such as the FSF. Current other interests include <span class="p-category category">search engines</span>, <span class="p-category category">security</span>, <span class="p-category category">privacy</span>, and the <span class="p-category category">Open Web</span> (including the <span class="p-category">IndieWeb</span>).

</div>

Git repos: [Sourcehut](https://sr.ht/~seirdy "{rel='me'}"), [GitHub](https://github.com/Seirdy "{rel='me'}"), [Codeberg](https://codeberg.org/Seirdy "{rel='me'}"), and [GitLab](https://gitlab.com/Seirdy "{rel='me'}")

I am made of microplastics and can be trusted with your forklift.

### Contact

Contact me via [email](mailto:seirdy@seirdy.one "{class='u-email' itemprop='email' rel='me authn'}") (I have [PGP](./publickey.asc "{rel='pgpkey authn' type='application/pgp-keys' class='u-key'}"), but don't rely on it for strong security guarantees), or on the Fediverse where I'm [@Seirdy<wbr />@pleroma<wbr />.envs.net](https://pleroma.envs.net/users/Seirdy "{rel='me' itemprop='sameAs' class='u-url'}"). If you send me marketing emails or solicit guest posts, I will block you and submit you to third-party blocklists without warning.

Chat with me: I'm [@seirdy<wbr />:envs.net](matrix:u/seirdy:envs.net "{class='u-impp u-url' rel='me'}") on Matrix.

</div>

## About this site

This is a basic [IndieWeb site](https://indieweb.org/).

In addition to its [canonical url](https://seirdy.one), a "rough draft" of this website also exists on my [Tildeverse page](https://envs.net/~seirdy/). This site's content also appears on my [Gemini capsule](gemini://seirdy.one).

For more information about the site, its design, badges/awards, and available feeds: [see the "meta" section](./meta/). This site's contents are [authored by me, not generative AI](./meta/#non-bot).

Commit message:

Mention new interests in health, fitness, veganisms

content/_index.md, after:

---
outputs:
    - html
    - gemtext
    - atom
    - RSS
title: Seirdy’s Home
sitemap:
    - ChangeFreq: weekly
    - Priority: 0.9
stype: "https://schema.org/WebSite"
---
## About me

<meta itemprop="url" content="https://seirdy.one" />
<div itemprop="author" itemscope="" itemtype="https://schema.org/Person" itemid="https://seirdy.one/#seirdy" class="p-author author h-card vcard" id="seirdy">

I'm <a itemprop="url" href="https://seirdy.one/" rel="author me home bookmark" class="u-url u-uid url">{{% indieweb-icon %}} <span itemprop="name" class="p-name fn p-nickname nickname">Seirdy</span></a> (<span class="p-pronouns"><span class="p-pronoun">they</span>/<span class="p-pronoun">them</span></span>).

The Director's Cut of my bio is at my [About page](./about/ "{itemprop='subjectOf'}").

<div class="p-note" itemprop="description">

I care deeply about <span class="p-category category">inclusive design</span> and <span class="p-category category">accessibility</span>, and hope my site's design reflects that. I'm a <abbr class="p-category category" title="Free, Libre, and Open-Source">FLOSS</abbr> supporter, though my perspective on software freedom differs from organizations such as the FSF. Current other interests include <span class="p-category category">search engines</span>, <span class="p-category category">security</span>, <span class="p-category category">privacy</span>, and the <span class="p-category category">Open Web</span> (including the <span class="p-category">IndieWeb</span>).

</div>

Git repos: [Sourcehut](https://sr.ht/~seirdy "{rel='me'}"), [GitHub](https://github.com/Seirdy "{rel='me'}"), [Codeberg](https://codeberg.org/Seirdy "{rel='me'}"), and [GitLab](https://gitlab.com/Seirdy "{rel='me'}")

Other interests include health and fitness, and veganism. I plan to write more about these topics in 2025.

I am made of microplastics and can be trusted with your forklift.

### Contact

Contact me via [email](mailto:seirdy@seirdy.one "{class='u-email' itemprop='email' rel='me authn'}") (I have [PGP](./publickey.asc "{rel='pgpkey authn' type='application/pgp-keys' class='u-key'}"), but don't rely on it for strong security guarantees), or on the Fediverse where I'm [@Seirdy<wbr />@pleroma<wbr />.envs.net](https://pleroma.envs.net/users/Seirdy "{rel='me' itemprop='sameAs' class='u-url'}"). If you send me marketing emails or solicit guest posts, I will block you and submit you to third-party blocklists without warning.

Chat with me: I'm [@seirdy<wbr />:envs.net](matrix:u/seirdy:envs.net "{class='u-impp u-url' rel='me'}") on Matrix.

</div>

## About this site

This is a basic [IndieWeb site](https://indieweb.org/).

In addition to its [canonical url](https://seirdy.one), a "rough draft" of this website also exists on my [Tildeverse page](https://envs.net/~seirdy/). This site's content also appears on my [Gemini capsule](gemini://seirdy.one).

For more information about the site, its design, badges/awards, and available feeds: [see the "meta" section](./meta/). This site's contents are [authored by me, not generative AI](./meta/#non-bot).
