This privacy policy is effective as of 2022-04-06. In short: I only collect standard server logs, I purge them regularly, and I only share sanitized excerpts (e.g. when filing bug reports).

## Scope

This privacy policy applies to the following services:

=> https://seirdy.one 1. The Web site https://seirdy.one
=> http://wgq3bd2kqoybhstp77i3wrzbfnsyd27wt34psaja4grqiezqircorkyd.onion/ 2. The hidden Web service http://wgq3%5C%5B...%5C%5Dd.onion, accessible over the Tor network
=> gemini://seirdy.one 3. The Gemini capsule gemini://seirdy.one

This policy only applies if served by one of those three services.

## Information I collect

My servers temporarily store server logs.

### Web server logs

For each request you make that reaches my Web servers, my server logs:

* Your public IP address
* The contents of your "user-agent" and "referer" (sic) headers
* The page you requested
* The time of the request
* The HTTP response code of the request

This is the information that Nginx logs according to the default configurations in many operating systems.

=> https://nginx.org/ Nginx HTTP server and reverse proxy

None of the Web content I serve contains cookies or scripts, or collects any information not described by this Privacy Policy

### Gemini server logs

My Gemini server logs:

* The page you requested
* The time of the request
* The Gemini response code of the request
* The language-code of the request

This is the information Agate logs according to its default configuration.

=> gemini://qwertqwefsday.eu/agate.gmi Agate Gemini server

These services currently run on, but do not necessarily endorse, virtual private servers owned by Digital Ocean. You can read Digital Ocean's data processing agreement to learn about how Digital Ocean processes data on these servers:

=> https://www.digitalocean.com/legal/data-processing-agreement Digital Ocean data processing agreement

### Retention

These logs are purged *every two days.*

### How I use your information

I use server logs to detect DoS attacks, misbehaving bots, and search engines to add to my public collection:

=> https://seirdy.one/2021/03/10/search-engines-with-own-indexes.html Search engines with their own indexes

## Information I share

No information is automatically shared with any third-parties, to my knowledge.

I may share excerpts of of server logs with third parties if I am trying to resolve a technical issue. For example, I may submit an excerpt of an error log when filing a bug report. Any time I have to share such an excerpt, I remove or alter all identifying information. This includes, but is not limited to: IP addresses, timestamps, and any uniquely-identifying user-agent strings.

I do not remove or alter identifying information when sharing excerpts of bot traffic.

Web content and Gemini content may contain hyperlinks to other pages hosted by other parties whose privacy policies I do not govern.

My privacy policy ends here. Any information that follows is not part of a privacy policy.

## Information I avoid

The following describes information I *avoid receiving* when serving Web content, as well as information I prevent users from *accidentally transmitting* to third parties.

No Web content governed by these policies makes any connections to parties that are not governed by this Privacy Policy.

By default, web browsers may share pages a user visits with third parties by loading third-party content (e.g. hotlinked images, third-party frames, etc). I have disabled this behavior with a "Content-Security-Policy" HTTP header that forbids all third-party content.

By default, web browsers may share arbitrary information with a server through HTTP headers; these headers could include fingerprintable information unintentionally (client-hints, do-not-track) or intentionally (Chromium's upcoming advertising identifiers). I do not log any HTTP headers not explicitly mentioned in the "Web server logs" section, but I cannot prevent user agents from sending a header ahead of time.

By default, web browsers can share near-arbitrary identifying data with a server by executing near-arbitrary JavaScript, or store this information for future transmission. I have disabled this behavior with a "Content-Security-Policy" HTTP header that forbids script loading ("script-src: none"), script execution ("sandbox"), and making connections for any purpose other than downloading a page a user navigated to ("connect-src").

By default, web browsers may "pre-fetch" DNS queries for links on a page, potentially leaking information to third parties without a user's consent; I have disabled this behavior with the "X-DNS-Prefetch-Control" header. This header is respected by Chromium, Firefox, and Chromium derivatives (e.g. Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge).

By default, user agents using HTTPS may contact a certificate authority to check the revocation status of an TLS certificate. I have disabled and replaced this behavior by including an "OCSP Must-Staple" directive in the TLS certificates used by my Web servers.

By default, user agents using HTTP or HTTPS may share a "referring" location with the destination website when following a link. I have disabled this by sending a "Referrer-Policy: no-referrer" header.

By default, Web browsers may share characteristics about the user's hardware, connection type, and personalizations using Client Hints and media queries. Browsers may request Web content according conditionally, in response to a "media" attribute in HTML or XHTML documents. Browsers may leverage stylesheets that use media queries to select varying "background-image" files. No Web content on seirdy.one will send network traffic in response to media queries: media queries will have no impact on content a standards-compliant browser will request. Media queries and client hints will have no impact on HTTP responses.

By default, many networks and Internet service providers often alter requests by redirecting them or injecting content. I have prevented this behavior by using a secure TLS cipher suite.
