content/support/index.md, before:

---
date: 2023-10-28
title: Support me
outputs:
    - html
description: "Support my work by sending me donations! This helps me continue Fediverse moderation, blogging, and coding."
---
I do some things that might help you:


Fediverse moderation
: I moderate the pleroma.envs.net Akkoma server as [@Seirdy@pleroma.envs.net](https://pleroma.envs.net/Seirdy "{rel='me'}"), and [I curate some blocklists]({{<relref "/posts/fediverse-blocklists.md">}}). This includes FediNuke; including supersets that include it, this is likely the most popular blocklist across the Fediverse.

Blogging
: See [the "Articles" section]({{<relref "/posts/">}}) for long-form articles, or [the "Notes" section]({{<relref "/notes/">}}) for short-form microblogs.

Coding
: Not much of that in public right now, but more are on the way (including the programs that generate my blocklists).

If you like anything I do and want to support me, you can send me a donation:


[Liberapay](https://liberapay.com/Seirdy/donate "{rel='me'}")
: Ideal for recurring donations, but also supports one-time payments. Requires a Liberapay account. You may optionally publicize your donation.

[Stripe](https://donate.stripe.com/dR65nv5BWg3icq46oo "{rel='me'}")
: Supports one-time-donations. Does not require an account. Your can't publicize this donation.

[Ko-Fi](https://ko-fi.com/Seirdy "{rel='me'}")
: Supports both recurring and one-time donations. You may optionally publicize your donation.

[GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/Seirdy "{rel='me'}")
: Supports both recurring and one-time donations. Requires a GitHub account. Can be public or visible to just me.

Thank you!

Commit message:

Add Cash App and rel-payment to support page

content/support/index.md, after:

---
date: 2023-10-28
title: Support me
outputs:
    - html
description: "Support my work by sending me donations! This helps me continue Fediverse moderation, blogging, and coding."
---
I do some things that might help you:


Fediverse moderation
: I moderate the pleroma.envs.net Akkoma server as [@Seirdy@pleroma.envs.net](https://pleroma.envs.net/Seirdy "{rel='me'}"), and [I curate some blocklists]({{<relref "/posts/fediverse-blocklists.md">}}). This includes FediNuke; including supersets that include it, this is likely the most popular blocklist across the Fediverse.

Blogging
: See [the "Articles" section]({{<relref "/posts/">}}) for long-form articles, or [the "Notes" section]({{<relref "/notes/">}}) for short-form microblogs.

Coding
: Not much of that in public right now, but more are on the way (including the programs that generate my blocklists).

If you like anything I do and want to support me, you can send me a donation:


[Liberapay](https://liberapay.com/Seirdy/donate "{rel='me payment'}")
: Ideal for recurring donations, but also supports one-time payments. Requires a Liberapay account. You may optionally publicize your donation.

[Stripe](https://donate.stripe.com/dR65nv5BWg3icq46oo "{rel='me payment'}")
: Supports one-time-donations. Does not require an account. Your can't publicize this donation.

[Ko-Fi](https://ko-fi.com/Seirdy "{rel='me payment'}")
: Supports both recurring and one-time donations. You may optionally publicize your donation.

[GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/Seirdy "{rel='me payment'}")
: Supports both recurring and one-time donations. Requires a GitHub account. Can be public or visible to just me.

[Cash App](https://cash.app/$seirdy "{rel='me payment'}")
: Supports one-time-donations. Requires an account. Your can't publicize this donation. Lower fees than the other Stripe-based options on this page.

Thank you!
