content/about/index.md, before:

---
date: 2020-10-30
layout: post
title: Seirdy (Rohan Kumar)
---

Rohan Kumar : He/Him : Age 20

Online Handle: Seirdy

Other versions of this website
------------------------------

This page also exists on the [tildeverse](https://tildeverse.org/), a bunch of \*nix
computers that let people sign up for shell accounts. A typical shell account
features clients for IRC and email, common terminal/commandline utilities, and (most
importantly) web hosting. Read about the tildeverse's
[origins](https://web.archive.org/web/20180917091804/https://medium.com/message/tilde-club-i-had-a-couple-drinks-and-woke-up-with-1-000-nerds-a8904f0a2ebf),
[learn more](http://tilde.club/wiki/faq.html), pick [a
tilde](http://tilde.club/%7Epfhawkins/othertildes.html) and [get
started](http://tilde.club/~anthonydpaul/primer.html). My Tildeverse pages will serve
as a "rough draft".

Content on this site also appears on [my Gemini space](gemini://seirdy.one)

Location (Rohan, meatspace)
---------------------------

Currently living at home in Cupertino, CA

Would normally be in Portland, OR during the school year, but COVID-19 happened.

Location (Seirdy, online)
-------------------------

My handle is "Seirdy" on all the platforms I use:

- [Tildeverse](https://envs.net/~seirdy)
- [Sourcehut forge](https://sr.ht/~seirdy)
- [GitHub forge](https://github.com/Seirdy)
- [GitLab forge](https://gitlab.com/Seirdy)
- [Fediverse (Pleroma)](https://pleroma.envs.net/seirdy)
- [Matrix: @seirdy:envs.net](https://matrix.to/\#/@seirdy:envs.net)
- [email](mailto:seirdy@seirdy.one)
- [PGP: 36B154A782AEA0AC](../publickey.txt)

My username is Seirdy on Reddit, Hacker News, Lobsters, Linux Weekly News, Codeberg,
and a few other places; my nick is Seirdy on many IRC networks.

If you find a "Seirdy" somewhere else and don't know whether or not it's me, please
contact me and ask instead of assuming that it must be me.

My preferred forge for personal projects is Sourcehut, but my repositories have
remotes for GitHub and GitLab too.

Interests, preferences, et cetera
---------------------------------

I ought to come up with more interests than these, but that sounds hard.

### Free software

The word "free" in "free software" refers to freedom, not price. I recommend looking
it up if you aren't familiar.

I lean towards simplicity; I usually prefer CLIs that follow the UNIX philosophy over
TUIs, and TUIs over GUIs. If a piece of software is complex enough to require a
funding round, I would rather avoid it. There are exceptions, of course: I use a
Linux distro with Systemd (Fedora), after all.

Some software I use: Fedora, Alpine Linux, SwayWM, Pandoc, mpv, mpd, Minetest,
Neovim, tmux, newsboat, WeeChat, and zsh.

More information is available in my [dotfiles repo](https://sr.ht/~seirdy/dotfiles);
check its README.

### Anime

I watch anime. Some of my favorites, in no particular order:

- Code Geass
- Mawaru Penguindrum
- No Game No Life: Zero
- Black Lagoon
- Ascendance of a Bookworm
- Saga of Tanya the Evil
- Monogatari
- Attack on Titan

### Music

I've put together a periodically-updated [list of tracks](../music.txt) that I've
rated 8/10 or higher in my mpd stickers database, auto-generated by some of my
[mpd-scripts](https://git.sr.ht/~seirdy/mpd-scripts/tree/master/smart-playlists). I'm
a fan of glitch, trailer music, and symphonic and power metal; I've also recently
been getting into Japanese rock thanks to a few anime openings. Some of my favorite
artists are The Glitch Mob, Pretty Lights, Beats Antique, Hammerfall, Badflower,
Celldweller/Scandroid, Helloween, Two Steps from Hell, Nightwish, Mili, and MYTH &
ROID.

<!--vi:ft=markdown.pandoc.gfm-->

Commit message:

Increase padding/tap-targets
- Adding more detail to the bulleted list in /about.html makes it easier
  to tap links since they're further apart
- Pad code frames a bit

content/about/index.md, after:

---
date: 2020-10-30
layout: post
title: Seirdy (Rohan Kumar)
---

Rohan Kumar : He/Him : Age 20

Online Handle: Seirdy

Other versions of this website
------------------------------

This page also exists on the [tildeverse](https://tildeverse.org/), a bunch of \*nix
computers that let people sign up for shell accounts. A typical shell account
features clients for IRC and email, common terminal/commandline utilities, and (most
importantly) web hosting. Read about the tildeverse's
[origins](https://web.archive.org/web/20180917091804/https://medium.com/message/tilde-club-i-had-a-couple-drinks-and-woke-up-with-1-000-nerds-a8904f0a2ebf),
read [the FAQ](http://tilde.club/wiki/faq.html), pick [a
tilde](http://tilde.club/%7Epfhawkins/othertildes.html) and [get
started](http://tilde.club/~anthonydpaul/primer.html). My Tildeverse pages will serve
as a "rough draft".

Content on this site also appears on [my Gemini space](gemini://seirdy.one)

Location (Rohan, meatspace)
---------------------------

Currently living at home in Cupertino, CA

Would normally be in Portland, OR during the school year, but COVID-19 happened.

Location (Seirdy, online)
-------------------------

My handle is "Seirdy" on all the platforms I use.

- The [Tildeverse](https://envs.net/~seirdy).
- Software forges: [Sourcehut](https://sr.ht/~seirdy),
  [GitHub](https://github.com/Seirdy), [GitLab](https://gitlab.com/Seirdy), and
  [Codeberg](https://codeberg.org/Seirdy).
- Social (federated): I'm [@Seirdy
  @pleroma.envs.net](https://pleroma.envs.net/seirdy) on the Fediverse.
- Social (non-federated): I'm Seirdy on [Hacker
  News](https://news.ycombinator.com/user?id=Seirdy),
  [Lobsters](https://lobste.rs/u/Seirdy),
  [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/user/Seirdy/), and Linux Weekly News.
- Email: my address is <seirdy@seirdy.one>. I typically sign my emails with my public
  PGP key: [36B154A782AEA0AC](../publickey.txt). My key is also available via WKD.
- Chat: my nick is Seirdy on most IRC networks. If you don't like IRC, I'm also
  [@seirdy:envs.net](https://matrix.to/\#/@seirdy:envs.net) on Matrix.

If you find a "Seirdy" somewhere else and don't know whether or not it's me, please
contact me and ask instead of assuming that it must be me.

My preferred forge for personal projects is Sourcehut, but my repositories have
remotes for GitHub and GitLab too.

Interests, preferences, et cetera
---------------------------------

I ought to come up with more interests than these, but that sounds hard.

### Free software

The word "free" in "free software" refers to freedom, not price. I recommend looking
it up if you aren't familiar.

I lean towards simplicity; I usually prefer CLIs that follow the UNIX philosophy over
TUIs, and TUIs over GUIs. If a piece of software is complex enough to require a
funding round, I would rather avoid it. There are exceptions, of course: I use a
Linux distro with Systemd (Fedora), after all.

Some software I use: Fedora, Alpine Linux, SwayWM, Pandoc, mpv, mpd, Minetest,
Neovim, tmux, newsboat, WeeChat, and zsh.

More information is available in my [dotfiles repo](https://sr.ht/~seirdy/dotfiles);
check its README.

### Anime

I watch anime. Some of my favorites, in no particular order:

- Code Geass
- Mawaru Penguindrum
- No Game No Life: Zero
- Black Lagoon
- Ascendance of a Bookworm
- Saga of Tanya the Evil
- Monogatari
- Attack on Titan

### Music

I've put together a periodically-updated [list of tracks](../music.txt) that I've
rated 8/10 or higher in my mpd stickers database, auto-generated by some of my
[mpd-scripts](https://git.sr.ht/~seirdy/mpd-scripts/tree/master/smart-playlists). I'm
a fan of glitch, trailer music, and symphonic and power metal; I've also recently
been getting into Japanese rock thanks to a few anime openings. Some of my favorite
artists are The Glitch Mob, Pretty Lights, Beats Antique, Hammerfall, Badflower,
Celldweller/Scandroid, Helloween, Two Steps from Hell, Nightwish, Mili, and MYTH &
ROID.

<!--vi:ft=markdown.pandoc.gfm-->
