content/posts/git-workflow-0.md, before:

---
date: "2020-11-17T13:13:03-08:00"
outputs:
- html
- gemtext
tags:
- git
- foss
title: "Resilient Git, Part 0: Introduction"
---

Recently, GitHub re-instated the [youtube-dl git
repository](https://github.com/ytdl-org/youtube-dl) after following a takedown
request by the RIAA under the DMCA. Shortly after the takedown, many members of the
community showed great interest in "decentralizing git" and setting up a more
resilient forge. What many of these people fail to understand is that the Git-based
project setup is designed to support decentralization by being fully distributed.

Following the drama, I'm putting together a multi-part guide on how to leverage the
decentralized, distributed nature of git and its ecosystem. I made every effort to
include all parts of a typical project.

I'll update this post as I add articles to the series. At the moment, I've planned to
write the following articles:

1.  Repository hosting
2.  Community feedback (issues, support, etc.)
3.  Community contributions (patches)
4.  CI/CD
5.  Distribution

The result of the workflows this series covers will be minimal dependence on outside
parties; all members of the community will easily be able to get a copy of the
software, its code, development history, issues, and patches offline on their
machines. With the exception of CI/CD, the offline content will follow
implementation-neutral open standards. Following open standards is the killer
feature: nothing in this workflow depends on a specific platform (GitHub, GitLab,
Gitea, Bitbucket, Docker, Nix, Jenkins, et cetera), almost eliminating your project's
"bus factor".

Providing a way to get everything offline, in a format that won't go obsolete if a
project dies, is the key to a resilient git workflow.

## Before we start: FAQ

Q: What level of experience does this series expect?

A: Basic knowledge of git, and a very basic understanding of email. If you have a few
repos and can use a third-party email client, you're good.

Q: Do you think you can get hundreds and thousands of people to drop Git{Hub,Lab,tea}
and use a different workflow?

A: No, but that would be nice. If only five people who read this series give this
workflow a spin and two of them like it and keep using it, I'd be happy.

Q: Is this workflow more difficult than my current one?

A: "Difficult" is subjective. I recommend TRYING this before jumping to conclusions
(or worse, sharing those conclusions with others before they have a chance to try
it).

Q: I'm not interested in trying anything new, no matter what the benefits are.

A: Ok, first of all, that wasn't a question. Second, this series isn't for you. You
should not read this. I recommend doing literally anything else.

Commit message:

New post: Resilient Git, part 1

content/posts/git-workflow-0.md, after:

---
date: "2020-11-17T13:13:03-08:00"
outputs:
- html
- gemtext
tags:
- git
- foss
title: "Resilient Git, Part 0: Introduction"
---

Recently, GitHub re-instated the [youtube-dl git
repository](https://github.com/ytdl-org/youtube-dl) after following a takedown
request by the RIAA under the DMCA. Shortly after the takedown, many members of the
community showed great interest in "decentralizing git" and setting up a more
resilient forge. What many of these people fail to understand is that the Git-based
project setup is designed to support decentralization by being fully distributed.

Following the drama, I'm putting together a multi-part guide on how to leverage the
decentralized, distributed nature of git and its ecosystem. I made every effort to
include all parts of a typical project.

I'll update this post as I add articles to the series. At the moment, I've planned to
write the following articles:

1.  [Hydra Hosting](../../../2020/11/18/git-workflow-1.html): repository hosting.
2.  Community feedback (issues, support, etc.)
3.  Community contributions (patches)
4.  CI/CD
5.  Distribution

The result of the workflows this series covers will be minimal dependence on outside
parties; all members of the community will easily be able to get a copy of the
software, its code, development history, issues, and patches offline on their
machines with implementation-neutral open standards. Following open standards is the
killer feature: nothing in this workflow depends on a specific platform (GitHub,
GitLab, Gitea, Bitbucket, Docker, Nix, Jenkins, etc.), almost eliminating your
project's "bus factor".

Providing a way to get everything offline, in a format that won't go obsolete if a
project dies, is the key to a resilient git workflow.

## Before we start: FAQ

Q: What level of experience does this series expect?

A: Basic knowledge of git, and a very basic understanding of email. If you have a few
repos and can use a third-party email client, you're good.

Q: Do you think you can get hundreds and thousands of people to drop Git{Hub,Lab,tea}
and use a different workflow?

A: No, but that would be nice. If only five people who read this series give this
workflow a spin and two of them like it and keep using it, I'd be happy.

Q: Is this workflow more difficult than my current one?

A: "Difficult" is subjective. I recommend TRYING this before jumping to conclusions
(or worse, sharing those conclusions with others before they have a chance to try
it).

Q: I'm not interested in trying anything new, no matter what the benefits are.

A: First of all, that wasn't a question. Second, this series isn't for you. You
should not read this. I recommend doing literally anything else.

Next: Resilient Git, Part 2: [Hydra Hosting](../../../2020/11/18/git-workflow-1.html)
